---
layout: post
title: Mac - Tools for Homebrew
date:   2018-10-10 18:22:52 +0100
categories: mac
---
Tools for Mac Homebrew
==========

Here's a list of common tools for OSX Homebrew, at least in my setup. Now in non-random alphabetical order (mostly).

##### antigen

This is a kind of plugin tool to extend ZSH with themes and features.

##### cowsay

ASCII-art cows saying things.

     _____ 
    < moo >
     ----- 
            \   ^__^
             \  (oo)\_______
                (__)\       )\/\
                    ||----w |
                    ||     ||


##### curl

The essential file download tool, this is also very useful for making
POST requests and checking server headers.

##### emacs

Forget Sublime, this is the mother of all text editors. You could live
in here, it's so roomy and has all mod-cons. It's virtually an operating
system in itself.

##### figlet

ASCII-art banners with a selection of typefaces. Useful for making
pretty console output.

      __ _       _      _   
     / _(_) __ _| | ___| |_ 
    | |_| |/ _` | |/ _ \ __|
    |  _| | (_| | |  __/ |_ 
    |_| |_|\__, |_|\___|\__|
           |___/            

There's an option to produce banners with only # symbols that I use in configuration files mostly because this is a comment character. This has the advantage of being visible in the 'minimap' feature in text editors like Sublime making it much easier to jump to the right section.

##### git

A newer version of git, replacing the antique version provided by Apple.

##### git-flow

Git extensions to support Git Flow; this can be useful to start/finish
features from the command line.

##### git-review

Git extension for Gerrit; this allows one-line push-to-review, so long
as the changes have been squashed to a single commit.

##### gnupg

Encryption for privacy; this is useful mostly to scramble files
containing passwords.

##### htop-osx

This alternative to 'top' gives a better output in my opinion, and is
highly configurable.

##### jenv

Manage versions of Java. I personally don't use this, but it seems to
crop up in 'how to set up development environment' guides quite
frequently.

##### john-jumbo

Password cracking toolkit; this is a last ditch tool if you forget a GPG
passphrase (oops), or if you want to check that \*your\* password is
secure (eek).

##### maven

Installing Maven via brew is possibly the easiest way to get it,
particularly on newer Macs where Apple have chosen not to install it at
all.

##### midnight-commander

If you've ever used Norton Commander, this is somewhat similar but for
the Terminal console. It's quite handy to use to explore directories and
run commands.

##### OpenSSL

You might think that the Apple-provided version is good enough, but there are (were in OSX 10.10) some significant deficiencies in the supplied toolchain. For me it was the lack of support for ProxyJump directives that I needed to use with multi-hop SSH sessions that forced the issue. The tradeoff is the lack of support for the Keychain, which may be a good thing depending on your point-of-view. 

##### phantomjs198

Headless web browser, useful for doing headless things like Cucumber
testing. Now deprecated in favour of newer versions of PhantomJS or headless Chrome.

##### python

The Python scripting language is needed by a lot of other things. Watch
out which version - 2 and 3 don't play well together.

##### rbenv

Manage Ruby version.

##### ruby

The Ruby language, to replace the antiquated version provided by Apple.

##### sslscan

I use this tool all the time to check SSL / TLS certificates and to collect domain names that may need further investigate assuming they aren't using wildcards. It's been super-useful. 

Tip: use the --no-heartbleed option so you don't need to use sudo.

##### tmux

Terminal Multiplexing. Basically this is split panels on the same
terminal tty, allowing for each to behave independently much like a
text-based windowing system. In truth, I rarely use this. I prefer screen generally, but it does have some advantages. Integration with iTerm2 is good.

##### tree

Display the tree of the current directory as ASCII-art; this is useful
for visualising and for documentation.

##### watch

Run a command every N seconds and display the output on a clean screen.
I find this useful for monitoring processes.

##### zsh

An alternative to the bash shell usually installed everywhere; I prefer
this for the auto complete options and the readiness of themes.
