---
layout: post
title: Things ending in IO
date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: notes
---
Things ending in IO
===================

This is a bucket of \*io things, mostly libraries that match the pattern
/\[.\]\*.io/ or are hosted on .io domains.

License information is provided as a hint only and may have changed by
the time you read this. Hire a lawyer if the difference between Apache,
MIT, and BSD licenses are important to you, or at the very least confirm
that I've listed the right license and understand how it may impact your
project.

pump.io
-------

pump.io is a stream server that does most of what people really want
from a social network.

What's it for?

I post something and my followers see it. That's the rough idea behind
the pump.

There's an API defined in the API.md file. It uses activitystrea.ms JSON
as the main data and command format.

You can post almost anything that can be represented with activity
streams -- short or long text, bookmarks, images, video, audio, events,
geo checkins. You can follow friends, create lists of people, and so on.

The software is useful for at least these scenarios:

Mobile-first social networking Activity stream functionality for an
existing app Experimenting with social software

##### License

Apache License, Version 2.0

Codepen.io
----------

<http://codepen.io/>

CodePen is a playground for the front end side of the web. It's all
about inspiration, education, and sharing.

Need to build a reduced test case to demonstrate and figure out a bug?
CodePen is great for that. Want to show off your latest creation and get
feedback from your peers? CodePen is great for that. Want to find
examples of a particular design pattern for your project? CodePen is
great for that.

##### License

Online, SaaS.

Swagger
-------

<http://swagger.io/>

Swagger is a simple yet powerful representation of your RESTful API.
With the largest ecosystem of API tooling on the planet, thousands of
developers are supporting Swagger in almost every modern programming
language and deployment environment. With a Swagger-enabled API, you get
interactive documentation, client SDK generation and discoverability.

##### License

Apache License, Version 2.0

prismic.io
----------

<https://prismic.io/>

prismic.io makes it easy to draft & publish content for your website or
app and enables you to A/B test and optimise your writings variations.
Store content in prismic.io and setup your website or app using a simple
API, without traditional CMS programming and design constraints.

##### License

Online, SaaS.

instant.io
----------

<https://instant.io/>

Instant.io - Streaming file transfer over WebTorrent. Download/upload
files using the WebTorrent protocol (BitTorrent over WebRTC). This is a
beta.

##### License

Code is available on GitHub (<https://github.com/feross/instant.io>)
under a MIT License.

Responsive Web Typography
-------------------------

<http://rwt.io/>

Jason Pamental: Originally put up to announce my book, Responsive
Typography, this version of the site has been conceived as a more
general resource on web typography. While I do certainly want to promote
events and workshops where I'll be speaking I also want to list others
as I find out about them, books, sites, articles, code samples and more.
There's still much to do, but a start is better than a promise of
perfection.

ISBN-10: 1491907096

##### License

Book. Go buy it.

angular.io
----------

<https://angular.io/>

Angular is a development platform for building mobile and desktop web
applications. Angular is a development platform for creating
applications using modern web standards. Angular includes a wealth of
essential features such as mobile gestures, animations, filtering,
routing, data binding, security, internationalization, and beautiful UI
components. It's extremely modular, lightweight, and easy to learn.

This is Angular 2, for version 1 see <https://angularjs.org/>

##### License

Code licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

