---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: ideology
---
Sledgehammerism
===============

#### Smash everything with the same tool

This generally manifests itself as defensibly using familiar tools,
frameworks, even languages with the rationale revolving around
familiarity.

#### If you can only have hammers, pick the right one for the job

A tenet of Sledgehammerism is a firm belief that one thing is better
than other things in the same category, usually equating to the largest,
most powerful, and most mature in it's class. A common example of this
is MVC frameworks. There are many choices in any language for any
platform, but some will be considered 'better' purely for reasons of
familiarity or convenience. While this may be true, it's also generally
considered bad to mix MVC frameworks - they have a tendency not to
interact in a pleasant way. So what ends up happening is bolting on an
entire system just to use some small and possibly trivial part of it,
just because that's perceived as the quick and easy way forward. The
effect of this it to significantly grow the codebase with dependencies
and their artifacts.

#### If you can only have one hammer, pick the right job

Sledgehammerists will go out of their way to use what they know, and if
they only know one thing (for example, Delphi / Object Pascal), then
they will only work on compatible projects. This further compounds their
situation by limiting their exposure to other technologies and prevents
them from 'acquiring new hammers'.

#### Encouraged by complexity

It is in this regard that Sledgehammerism shares elements of
Librarianism, and that is it often at odds with Purism unless the hammer
in question is the platform itself. Indeed, it's entirely possible to
select a product or platform that is far too complex for the task in
question for exactly the same reasons as adding a heavy dependency -
familiarity.

#### More complex, more configuration

A side effect of Sledgehammerism is a shift in the code/configuration
ratio. This paradigm has a tendency to see a significant increase in
configuration files to control the behaviour of the system.
