---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: mac
---
brew tools
==========

##### john-jumbo

Password cracking toolkit; this is a last ditch tool if you forget a GPG
passphrase (oops), or if you want to check that \*your\* password is
secure (eek).

##### phantomjs198

Headless web browser, useful for doing headless things like Cucumber
testing.

##### git

A newer version of git, replacing the antique version provided by Apple.

##### tmux

Terminal Multiplexing. Basically this is split panels on the same
terminal tty, allowing for each to behave independently much like a
text-based windowing system. In truth, I rarely use this.

##### git-flow

Git extensions to support Git Flow; this can be useful to start/finish
features from the command line.

##### git-review

Git extension for Gerrit; this allows one-line push-to-review, so long
as the changes have been squashed to a single commit.

##### tree

Display the tree of the current directory as ASCII-art; this is useful
for visualising and for documentation.

##### maven

Installing Maven via brew is possibly the easiest way to get it,
particularly on newer Macs where Apple have chosen not to install it at
all.

##### python

The Python scripting language is needed by a lot of other things. Watch
out which version - 2 and 3 don't play well together.

##### curl

The essential file download tool, this is also very useful for making
POST requests and checking server headers.

##### htop-osx

This alternative to 'top' gives a better output in my opinion, and is
highly configurable.

##### midnight-commander

If you've ever used Norton Commander, this is somewhat similar but for
the Terminal console. It's quite handy to use to explore directories and
run commands.

##### rbenv

Manage Ruby version.

##### emacs

Forget Sublime, this is the mother of all text editors. You could live
in here, it's so roomy and has all mod-cons. It's virtually an operating
system in itself.

##### gnupg

Encryption for privacy; this is useful mostly to scramble files
containing passwords.

##### zsh

An alternative to the bash shell usually installed everywhere; I prefer
this for the auto complete options and the readiness of themes.

##### figlet

ASCII-art banners with a selection of typefaces. Useful for making
pretty console output.

      __ _       _      _   
     / _(_) __ _| | ___| |_ 
    | |_| |/ _` | |/ _ \ __|
    |  _| | (_| | |  __/ |_ 
    |_| |_|\__, |_|\___|\__|
           |___/            

##### ruby

The Ruby language, to replace the antiquated version provided by Apple.

##### jenv

Manage versions of Java. I personally don't use this, but it seems to
crop up in 'how to set up development environment' guides quite
frequently.

##### cowsay

ASCII-art cows saying things.

     _____ 
    < moo >
     ----- 
            \   ^__^
             \  (oo)\_______
                (__)\       )\/\
                    ||----w |
                    ||     ||

##### watch

Run a command every N seconds and display the output on a clean screen.
I find this useful for monitoring processes.

    brew list
    antlr           fontconfig      gnutls          john-jumbo      libssh2         pango           ruby193
    atk         freetype        gobject-introspection   jpeg            libtasn1        pcre            s-lang
    autoconf        gdbm            gpg-agent       jruby           libtiff         phantomjs198        sqlite
    bash-completion     gdk-pixbuf      gradle          libassuan       libusb          pinentry        swig
    brew-cask       gettext         groovy          libcroco        libusb-compat       pixman          tidyp
    bsdmake         git         gtk+            libevent        libyaml         pkg-config      tmux
    cairo           git-flow        gts         libffi          lighttpd        pth         tree
    cowsay          git-review      harfbuzz        libgcrypt       maven           python          watch
    curl            glib            htop-osx        libgpg-error        midnight-commander  rbenv           wget
    dirmngr         gmp         icu4c           libksba         netpbm          readline        xz
    emacs           gnupg           jasper          libpng          nettle          ruby            zsh
    figlet          gnupg2          jenv            librsvg         openssl         ruby-build
