---
layout: post
title: Randonomicon
date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: randonomicon
---
About
=====

What is this book?
------------------

This book is primarily a great big bundle of my rough notes and research
into various tools and platforms, tied together in a nice wrapper using
[LaTeX]{acronym-label="LaTeX" acronym-form="singular+short"} as a
typesetting tool. I started writing this up late in 2014, and realised
that formatting as a printed book is straightforward with the tools at
hand will help me focus and write things that might make sense later,
and maybe useful to others.

This book is also a general indicator as to the development tools and
languages I think are interesting to me; all of this is real and used by
me right now. Nothing is research just for the sake of this book. It's
all stuff I've been working on and using, and not a wish-list of things
to do. The other general indicator of my interests is the huge pile of
unread books sat next to me, some of which may get mentioned.

There's a web page for this book. You can find it here together with any
updates, and the latest PDF should be there too for you to download:

<http://antonyh.co.uk/book/>

You can 'flattr' this work with a micropayment - all donations help
produce more content. For more information on donating, visit this page:

<https://flattr.com/submit/auto?fid=pog77q&url=http%3A%2F%2Fantonyh.co.uk%2Fbook%2F>

### The Creative Commons License

Hutch's Big Book of DevNotes by Antony Hutchison is licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. This
means you are free to:

-   Share; copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format

-   Adapt; remix, transform, and build upon the material

-   for any purpose, even commercially.

-   The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the
    license terms.

You can find more information on your rights under this license here:
<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>. If you don't agree to
the terms of the license, or have an intended use that this license
doesn't permit, talk to me. I've chosen this license as it's a
'free-culture' license, as I believe that by sharing this knowledge
others may be helped.

### Who is this book for?

This book isn't intended for the novice. If you are a novice, hello. Do
try to read and understand, and do ask questions. Ask me. Ask your
peers. Ask on-line. This text isn't likely to give you all the answers,
as it makes bold, broad, sweeping assumptions that you've coded. And I
mean CODED, not just \"hello world\" or \"fizz buzz\" in basic, or typed
\"make && make install\" into a shell. I'm not going to explain how to
install Haskell and compile a program. That said, you are the best judge
of your ability, if you want to dive in then I honestly hope this book
helps you.

This book sometimes covers basics but only when it helps ground my
thoughts as I write or if I think it makes sense. There are a bazillion
books that introduce technologies, and instead of reproducing them I
might just add enough to get things rolling. Or I might just link to
them so you can go buy them. If it's a new technology or paradigm I'll
explore simpler things, but probably not if it's something like Java.
Either way, there are better uses of our time than yet another Hello
World tutorial so that's definitely something that's not likely to
appear here. When we are skimming over topics, code fragments will be
used instead of full listings. I'll assume that you know what to do with
them.

### About the book itself

This book has been created in LaTeX. The primary edit tool for this book
is <https://www.sharelatex.com>, an online collaborative editing tool.
It has been typeset as a book, single-sided for easier screen reading.

This book has an evil twin known as 'RoughNotes' that will never, ever,
ever see the light of day. When a chapter in there grows enough and is
cleaned up, it is moved into this book.

The other sources of information in this book are my Instapaper
collection, my Evernote clippings, and my browser bookmarks. It's a
goldmine waiting to be turning into something legible. There's also a
lot of notes in a product called 'Circus Ponies Notebook' that is sadly
Mac-only, and I need to liberate them into this book.

The glossary is in part inspired by Ambrose Bierce's Devils Dictionary,
published in 1906. This book of 'DevNotes' lacks both the depth of
cynicism and the wit of the Devils Dictionary, but is considerably more
advantageous to those seeking to program computers. To find out more,
see

<http://www.thedevilsdictionary.com/>

This book may contain Amazon affiliate links that support the
development of new chapters. Click a link, buy a book, it's like voting
for new words.

Quick disclaimer: Whatever you do with your computer is your own fault.
If you type 'vagrant destroy' and it rubs out your only copy of your
working mission critical code project just before you commit it to SCM
then that's your doing and your really need to think hard about your
general working practises. If you are trying something out and it
doesn't work and you miss your deadline, this is also purely down to
you. On the other hand, this book is useful. Yaw.

The table of contents for this book is deliberately zero-indexed.

How complete is this book?
--------------------------

This book is likely to be in a permanent state of flux. It'll probably
never be truly finished, for many reasons:

-   technology changes quickly - there will always be something to add,
    amend, or improve

-   there is no real peer review of this material aside from the
    feedback from readers, so there's always going to be corrections
    needed. Feedback is welcome from the readers and helps refine the
    text

-   as a general rule I'm just adding when and where I feel like, based
    on things I'm actively using. This greatly depends on what I'm
    working on and how much time I have.

-   there's a lot of material that is not yet ready to include because
    it's either wrong or inaccurate, outdated, contains mistakes, or has
    not yet been formatted. At the moment, about 10% of the writing I've
    produced has been included

-   some areas dive deeper into the technology than others and it takes
    time to level this off so the book as a whole makes sense and is
    useful. The focus is on adding needed depth rather than taking away
    but without duplicating other resources

The chapter on Docker is mostly complete although rapidly becoming
outdated as Docker is constantly changing. Docker 1.5 was covered, it's
now up to 1.8.2. Mostly, it still appears to be useful information.

The chapter on LaTeX is poor; it doesn't even cover the markup in this
book! It needs a lot of work but it's still worth including.

Finally, the chapter on Magnolia CMS is fine in what it covers, but
there is a lot missing. I don't intend to expand this beyond the
programming tasks of Freemarker and Spring Blossom. Parts of this
chapter feel unconvincing to me, as I finished writing some of it long
after I finished the project.

### Day CQ / Adobe AEM

Some will be surprised by the lack of information on Day Communiqué / CQ
/ Adobe AEM given the years I've invested into this platform. Don't
fret, I have a lot of notes to organise, hundreds of bookmarks to
collate, and it will take time to produce something that's worthwhile
and not just a long blog post. There's also a lot of information that's
not really very useful with the modern versions released by Adobe, and
it needs to be filtered to be relevant. It will happen, there will be a
chapter on CQ/AEM.

### The other chapters

There's quite a lot of material that has yet to be included in this
book. Some of it is in good shape but needs proof reading, some of it is
nowhere near good enough. It's hard to produce new content and finish
the existing chapters especially when some technology like Docker is
moving so quickly.

The other chapters are much worse and are barely worth mentioning. The
Git chapter is starting to take shape, although it is a little short.
The chapter on Java has some information, is somewhat scruffy at
present, and in some areas lacks depth. I've worked on the Maven
contents most recently.
