---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: maven
---
Maven settings
==============

You can use a global settings file to avoid littering the pom.xml files
with non-project-related settings, such as the location on you local
disk for the repository cache, and settings for proxies and remote
servers.

To set this up, create an file in the .m2 folder named settings.xml. An
empty version of this might look like this:

    <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0" 
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                            https://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd"> 
        <localRepository/>
        <interactiveMode/>
        <usePluginRegistry/>
        <offline/>
        <pluginGroups/> 
        <servers/>
        <mirrors/>
        <proxies/>
        <profiles/> 
        <activeProfiles/> 
    </settings> 

To customise the behaviour of your machine without affecting others, add
entries into the settings.xml file.

Store the cache elsewhere
-------------------------

I don't like having the 'repository' folder in the .m2 folder because it
clutters it. Also I have the .m2 folder under version control because I
value the effort made in creating the settings.xml file. Another reason
to move it is to host it on another volume, either for performance
reasons or to save disk space on higher-performing devices.

    <localRepository>/data/.m2/repository</localRepository> 

This entry moves the file store for Maven. Make sure it has read/write
access and enough disk space.

Nexus mirrors
-------------

Using a Nexus mirror is a great idea because it solves a number of key
problems with Maven:

-   it saves you bandwidth by reducing the number of downloads onto your
    network

-   it accelerates build time by placing dependencies closer

-   it gives you certainty that a dependency will be available making
    the build more robust

-   it hosts the output of your builds, so they can become immutable

-   it can proxy other repositories, simplifying development
    configuration

To set this in the settings.xml, add this fragment to configure the
mirrors used by Maven.

      <mirrors>
        <mirror>                               
          <id>nexus</id>        
          <mirrorOf>*</mirrorOf>        
          <url>http://<host>/content/groups/public</url>                         
        </mirror>  
      </mirrors> 

This declares that everything has been mirrored by your Nexus server. If
you need to add a new external repository, all you need to do is add it
to Nexus as a proxy service without the need to change anything else.

Selecting from multiple settings.xml files
------------------------------------------

It's trivial to use a different set of settings at build time. This can
be very useful, such as when switching between projects or clients, or
when you aren't on your home network but can't run the build in offline
mode because there are new public dependencies.

    mvn -s ~/.m2/another-settings-file.xml install

This will use the alternative settings that you've created instead of
the normal settings.xml file. I like to use this for a 'no settings'
version that has everything as default for when the Nexus server is
unavailable but I need to build a new project.

Project specific settings file
------------------------------

Some projects will have a settings file in the SCM repository for
safekeeping and sharing, and if you work on multiple projects with
different settings it might be best to invoke Maven like this:

    mvn -s settings.xml install

This will use the settings.xml file in the current directory.
