---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: jekyll update
---
All the content here is the blurb, copied directly from the respective
web site.

Rust
====

<http://www.rust-lang.org>

Rust is a systems programming language that runs blazingly fast,
prevents almost all crashes\*, and eliminates data races.

Featuring

zero-cost abstractions move semantics guaranteed memory safety threads
without data races trait-based generics pattern matching type inference
minimal runtime efficient C bindings

Nim
===

<http://nim-lang.org> Nim (formerly known as \"Nimrod\") is a statically
typed, imperative programming language that tries to give the programmer
ultimate power without compromises on runtime efficiency. This means it
focuses on compile-time mechanisms in all their various forms.

Beneath a nice infix/indentation based syntax with a powerful (AST
based, hygienic) macro system lies a semantic model that supports a soft
realtime GC on thread local heaps. Asynchronous message passing is used
between threads, so no \"stop the world\" mechanism is necessary. An
unsafe shared memory heap is also provided for the increased efficiency
that results from that model.

Racket
======

<http://racket-lang.org>

A programmable programming language.

Racket is a full-spectrum programming language. It goes beyond Lisp and
Scheme with dialects that support objects, types, laziness, and more.
Racket enables programmers to link components written in different
dialects, and it empowers programmers to create new, project-specific
dialects. Racket's libraries support applications from web servers and
databases to GUIs and charts.

Pharo
=====

<http://pharo.org>

The immersive programming experience. Pharo is a pure object-oriented
programming language and a powerful environment, focused on simplicity
and immediate feedback (think IDE and OS rolled into one).

Simple & powerful language No constructors, no types declaration, no
interfaces, no primitive types. Yet a powerful and elegant language with
a full syntax fitting in one postcard! Pharo is objects and messages all
the way down.

Feel a live environment Feel the joy of having immediate feedback at any
moment of your development: Developing, testing, debugging. Even in
production environments, you will never be stuck in compiling and
deploying steps again!

Amazing debugging experience The Pharo environment includes a debugger
unlike anything you've seen before. It allows you to step through code,
restart the execution of methods, create methods on the fly, and much
more!

Pharo is yours Pharo is made by an incredible community, with more than
80 contributors for the last revision of the platform and hundreds of
people contributing constantly with frameworks and libraries.

Amber Smalltalk
===============

<http://amber-lang.net> A new language and live environment made for the
web.

The Amber language is deeply inspired by Smalltalk. It is designed to
make client-side development faster and easier. Amber includes a live
development environment with a class browser, workspace, unit test
runner, transcript, object inspector and debugger.

Amber is written in itself, including the compiler, and compiles into
efficient JavaScript, mapping one-to-one with the JS equivalent.
