---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: ansible
---
Ansible Handlers
========

This contains a handlers file named 'main.yml'. I sure wish they had
named all these YAML files after their purpose instead of 'main', it
would have made it easier when using an editor with multiple panes or
tabs, and easier to find the file by name.

Handlers are tasks that are only run if triggered by a 'notify'
directive on another task. This is typically used to restart a service
only if configuration files has changed.

Using a handler
---------------

    - name: Configure Wingnuts 
      template: src=wingnuts.config.j2 dest=/etc/wingnuts
      handler: restart wingnuts

This will log an event to call the handler 'restart wingnuts'. Ansible
is smart. It will only run the task for the handler once, after all the
tasks that trigger this event have completed.

Declaring a handler
-------------------

In the 'handlers/main.yml' file, you declare a handler exactly as you
wold define a task.

    ---
    # Handlers for Wingnut

    - name: restart wingnut
      service: name=wingnut state=restarted

The name matches the name given in the 'handler' declaration of the
task, and Ansible does the rest.

Caveats
-------

Handlers should avoid using includes, because of known issues with
run-time evaluation causing the handler not to be seen.

It might not be wise to have a handler that has a 'handler', aside from
the risk of recursion. If you need to have nested dependencies, things
have already become too complex and gotten out of hand. Frankly, this
might not even be legal syntax.
