---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: agile
---
backlog
=======

REWRITE

http://guide.agilealliance.org/guide/backlog.html

Backlog Definition A backlog is a list of features or technical tasks
which the team maintains and which, at a given moment, are known to be
necessary and sufficient to complete a project or a release: if an item
on the backlog does not contribute to the project's goal, it should be
removed; on the other hand, if at any time a task or feature becomes
known that is considered necessary to the project, it should be added to
the backlog. These \"necessary and sufficient\" properties are assessed
relative to the team's state of knowledge at a particular moment; the
backlog is expected to change throughout the project's duration as the
team gains knowledge. The backlog is the primary point of entry for
knowledge about requirements, and the single authoritative source
defining the work to be done. Common Pitfalls The backlog should not be
confused with a \"requirements document\". There isn't a mandated format
to represent the backlog: it can be an Excel document, a text file, a
database or a collection of index cards or Post-It notes. This last,
physical form is however the most common among Agile teams. A backlog in
physical form mitigates the risk of creating multiple, conflicting
versions, which would be a dire mistake given the backlog's function as
a \"single trusted source\" of the work to be done. Another key aspect
of backlog items is their \"atomic\" aspect, as opposed to a narrative
document in which, for instance, a single sentence could contain several
distinct requirements, or conversely describe one requirement over
several paragraphs of detail. The physical form also encourages this
\"atomicity\". The backlog should not describe every item at the same
level of detail, or \"granularity\". Features and tasks which are
expected to be delivered in the near future should be broken down into
fine-grained items and accompanied with details such as acceptance
tests, UI sketches, etc.; whereas items planned for a more distant
future can be described at a more macroscopic level. - See more at:
http://guide.agilealliance.org/guide/backlog.html\#sthash.NocSOHQN.dpuf

Grooming
--------

REWRITE

http://guide.agilealliance.org/guide/backlog-grooming.html

Backlog Grooming Definition The team (or part of the team including the
product owner) meet regularly to \"groom the product backlog\", in a
formal or informal meeting which can lead to any of the following:
removing user stories that no longer appear relevant creating new user
stories in response to newly discovered needs re-assessing the relative
priority of stories assigning estimates to stories which have yet to
receive one correcting estimates in light of newly discovered
information splitting user stories which are high priority but too
coarse grained to fit in an upcoming iteration Also Known As Other terms
include \"Story Time\" (see timeline), \"Backlog Refinement Meeting\".
The term reflects an organic approach to maintaining the backlog: the
intended imagery is that of trimming, pruning, cleaning, as with a
plant. Expected Benefits The intent of a \"grooming\" meeting is to
ensure that the backlog remains populated with items that are relevant,
detailed and estimated to a degree appropriate with their priority, and
in keeping with current understanding of the project or product and its
objectives. Unlike a more formal \"requirements document\" the backlog
is understood as a dynamic body of information. For instance, not all
user stories need to have been broken down to a fine-grained level at
the onset of the project, or given detailed estimates; but it is
important that at any moment a \"sufficient\" number of stories should
be ready for scheduling in the next few iterations. An Agile project is,
no less than any other, subject to \"scope creep\", in the form of user
stories which do not really yield substantial value but were thought
\"good ideas at the time\", and entered into the backlog lest they be
forgotten. In the absence of explicit efforts aimed at managing this
inflation, this inflation would result in the too well known pathologies
of schedule and budget overruns. Origins 2005: the earliest recorded use
of the term \"backlog grooming\" is from Mike Cohn on the Scrum
development mailing list; it will be several years before the practice
is described more formally 2008: one of the first formal descriptions of
\"backlog grooming\" is given by Kane Mar, under the name \"Story
Time\", and recommending it as a regular meeting 2011: the practice of
\"backlog grooming\" is promoted to an \"official\" element of Scrum
with its inclusion in the Scrum Guide - See more at:
http://guide.agilealliance.org/guide/backlog-grooming.html\#sthash.X59SJLHU.dpuf
