---
layout: post
title: Things using JS
date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: javascript, revise
---
Things using JS
===============

This is a bucket of JS things, mostly libraries that match the pattern
/\[.\]\*js/

Almost all the text in this chapter will be copied directly from the
frameworks / websites referenced.

License information is provided as a hint only and may have changed by
the time you read this. Hire a lawyer if the difference between Apache,
MIT, and BSD licenses are important to you, or at the very least confirm
that I've listed the right license and understand how it may impact your
project.

manifoldjs
----------

<http://www.manifoldjs.com>

The simplest way to create hosted apps across platforms and devices.
Start using manifoldJS as part of your build process:

    npm install manifoldjs
    grunt manifoldjs

By Microsoft. Licensed under the MIT license.

### Why manifoldJS?

manifoldJS helps you reach more users than ever by packaging your web
experience as native apps across Android, iOS, and Windows.

### How manifoldJS Works

manifoldJS takes the meta-data about your site and generates native
\"hosted\" apps. If the platform doesn't support hosted apps, we use
Cordova to polyfill it.

### Standards-based

manifoldJS is based on the latest W3C Manifest working draft. We will
update manifoldJS as the spec evolves so that you can have confidence
that your apps will continue to work.

clusterize.js
-------------

<http://nexts.github.io/Clusterize.js/>

Clusterize.js - Tiny plugin to display large data sets easily.

Licensed under the MIT license.

### How does it work?

The main idea is not to pollute DOM with all used tags. Instead of that
- it splits the list to clusters, then shows elements for current scroll
position and adds extra rows to top and bottom of the list to emulate
full height of table so that browser shows scrollbar as for full list.

vanillajs
---------

<http://vanilla-js.com>

Vanilla JS is a fast, lightweight, cross-platform framework for building
incredible, powerful JavaScript applications.

Although this is somewhat tongue-in-cheek, it does highlight that plain
Javascript already has a lot to offer, including browser DOM access and
the ability to run almost anywhere.

jquerymy.js
-----------

<http://jquerymy.com> jquerymy.js - A lightweight jQuery plugin for
complex two-way data binding in real time.

jQuery.my is licensed under MIT.

### How it works 

jQuery.my is a plugin for real time two-way data binding. It mutates
object given as data source, reflecting interactions between user and
UI.

Data bindings, facade appearance and CSS styling of an app are all
defined using single manifest, which is standard javascript object.
Manifests are JSONable.

jQuery.my recognize both standard HTML controls and complex composites
created using rich ui plugins. Controls built with jQuery UI, Select2,
CodeMirror, Ace, Redactor, CLeditor, jQuery Mobile are supported out of
the box.

jQuery.my provides comprehensive validation, conditional formatting,
complex dependencies, runtime form structure manipulation. \$.my forms
can run nested, each jQuery.my instance can be a composite control for
parent form.

Syntax of \$.my manifest is very simple, lean and unobtrusive. There
exist specialized in-browser IDE for \$.my apps authoring. This IDE is a
built-in component of cloudwall.me system.

elevator.js
-----------

<http://tholman.com/elevator.js/>

Elevator.js fixes those awkward \"scroll to top\" moments the old
fashioned way.

Elevator.js is covered by the MIT License. The audio in the demo is
Creative Commons.

justice.js
----------

<http://okor.github.io/justice/>

A performance metric bar with a streaming FPS graph. This adds a
frame-rate graphic to the page in a collapseable panel.

MIT License.

ramjet.js
---------

<http://www.rich-harris.co.uk/ramjet/>

Ramjet makes it looks as though one DOM element is capable of
transforming into another, no matter where the two elements sit in the
DOM tree.

It does so by making copies of the two elements (and all their
children), setting a fixed position on each, then using CSS transforms
to morph the two elements in sync.

Ramjet is free and open source software released under the MIT License.

fabric.js
---------

<http://fabricjs.com/>

<https://github.com/kangax/fabric.js>

Fabric.js is a powerful and simple Javascript HTML5 canvas library.
Fabric provides interactive object model on top of canvas element.
Fabric also has SVG-to-canvas (and canvas-to-SVG) parser.

MIT License.

ldapjs
------

<http://ldapjs.org/>

ldapjs is a pure JavaScript, from-scratch framework for implementing
LDAP clients and servers in Node.js. It is intended for developers used
to interacting with HTTP services in node and express.

MIT License.

LABjs
-----

<http://labjs.com/>

LABjs (Loading And Blocking JavaScript) is an all-purpose, on-demand
JavaScript loader, capable of loading any JavaScript resource, from any
location, into any page, at any time. Loading your scripts with LABjs
reduces resource blocking during page-load, which is an easy and
effective way to optimize your site's performance.

##### License

MIT.

d3.js
-----

<http://d3js.org/>

D3.js is a JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data.
D3 helps you bring data to life using HTML, SVG, and CSS. D3's emphasis
on web standards gives you the full capabilities of modern browsers
without tying yourself to a proprietary framework, combining powerful
visualization components and a data-driven approach to DOM manipulation.

##### License

BSD.

underscore.js
-------------

<http://underscorejs.org/>

Underscore is a JavaScript library that provides a whole mess of useful
functional programming helpers without extending any built-in objects.
It's the answer to the question: "If I sit down in front of a blank HTML
page, and want to start being productive immediately, what do I need?"
... and the tie to go along with jQuery's tux and Backbone's suspenders.

##### License

MIT.

backbone.js
-----------

<http://backbonejs.org/>

Backbone.js gives structure to web applications by providing models with
key-value binding and custom events, collections with a rich API of
enumerable functions, views with declarative event handling, and
connects it all to your existing API over a RESTful JSON interface.

##### License

MIT

angularjs
---------

<https://angularjs.org/>

Why AngularJS?

HTML is great for declaring static documents, but it falters when we try
to use it for declaring dynamic views in web-applications. AngularJS
lets you extend HTML vocabulary for your application. The resulting
environment is extraordinarily expressive, readable, and quick to
develop.

This is Angular 1, for version 2 see <https://angular.io/>

##### License

Code licensed under the The MIT License.

threejs
-------

todo

##### License

reactjs
-------

todo

##### License

nodejs
------

todo

##### License

hammer.js
---------

todo

##### License

tremula.js
----------

todo

##### License
