---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: ideology
---
Experimentalism
===============

#### The desire to try something new, always

This is the converse and polar opposite to Sledgehammerism. Given any
project, if there is a new technology available or a tool that might
sound good on a CV, then attempts should be made to utilise it
somewhere, somehow at some point for any reason no matter how flimsy.

#### Career building

The effects of this are to increase developer interest in the project as
well as providing the developer with career building opportunities, but
also to add what may well be a risky, unproven, lightly documented
component to the system. A very real example of this would have been
projects that used [Docker]{acronym-label="Docker"
acronym-form="singular+short"} prior to the release of v1.0 despite
disclaimers by the Docker team not to use it in production.

#### The benefits of betas

Projects that do use experiment and beta products can see some great
benefits if they are able to absorb the risks and have enough breathing
space to make large changes should it not work out as expected. However,
there does exist a mindset that we should try new things when we can,
and that all projects are changes which by itself implies that there is
never a wrong time to do this if enough consideration is taken.

#### Explorer

A great developer will continue to explore technology and know about
upcoming tools, technology, methods, and approaches so that they can
apply something new when it has significant benefits over more
established options. The Experimentalist however seeks to push the
latest and greatest at every opportunity. In more conservative
environments this is unlikely to be beneficial, but for startups and
cutting edge projects it can be a bonus. There is a fine line between
Explorer and Experimentalists, governed by judgement.

#### Risky choices

There are many risks with adopting new tools or technologies, not least
of which is a lack of stability in the software itself. Another risk is
a lack of expertise available to support the new tools.
