---
layout: post

date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: jekyll update
---
Vagrant
=======

Introduction
------------

Vagrant is a tool rather than a technology unto itself, but as there are
a lot of options and configuration that can ruin you day I've catalogued
many things I find useful.

Provisioning with SaltStack
---------------------------

Provisioning a Vagrant machine using SaltStack is easy but needs a few
settings to work. First, start with a recommended box - Debian Jessie
x64.

    config.vm.box = "debian/jessie64" 

I like this box because it's fairly minimal, offers a good package
management system, and seems to work well for most cases. The downside
is that it doesn't have the Virtualbox guest additions installed, and
using the SaltStack provisioner requires file synchronisation between
host and guest.

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest
    config.vbguest.auto_update = true

You can then add a provisioner to use Salt.

    ## For masterless, mount your salt file root
    ## requires vbox guest additions for this to work
    config.vm.synced_folder "salt/roots/", "/srv/salt/"
        
    ## Use all the defaults:
    config.vm.provision :salt do |salt|
        salt.masterless = true
        salt.minion_config = "salt/minion"
        salt.run_highstate = true
        salt.verbose = true
    end      

This will run on 'vagrant up' during first run, or on 'vagrant
provision' to update.

SaltStack will be covered separately, but if you are desperate for a
working example, I've put one on GitHub here:
<https://github.com/antonyh/vagrant-saltstack>

Tricks and tips
---------------

### Vagrantfile syntax highlighting

In order to make editors such as Vi and Emacs see the Vagrantfile as
Ruby, add this snippet to the top of the file. This will give you
formatting and syntax highlighting.

    # -*- mode: ruby -*-
    # vi: set ft=ruby : 

### Using libvirt on Linux

On Linux, instead of VirtualBox you may want to use libvirt as a
hypervisor. This is possible by installing some plugins, converting the
box, then starting using a different provider.

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-libvirt
    vagrant plugin install vagrant-mutate
    vagrant mutate ubuntu/vivid64 libvirt
    vagrant up --provider=libvirt

### debug vagrant

To output verbose information when using Vagrant:

    VAGRANT_LOG=INFO vagrant ssh

To output extremely verbose information when using Vagrant:

    VAGRANT_LOG=DEBUG vagrant ssh

This also works with other commands, such as 'vagrant up' and 'vagrant
provision', and can yield a lot of useful information when diagnosing
unexpected behaviour.

### Global options

If you want or need to make settings across all your machines, or want
to have settings that apply to only your personal environment, you can
put then in  /.vagrant.d/Vagrantfile.

### Virtualbox guest additions

Installing the vagrant-vbguest plugin then adding this single line to
the Vagrant file will cause the vbox guest additions to be updated or
added if they are missing.

      config.vbguest.auto_update = true
      

Useful plugins
--------------

Vagrant can extended using plugins, many of which are rather useful.

##### vagrant plugin install vagrant-libvirt

Enable the libvirt provider. You can use this with:

    vagrant up --provider=libvirt

##### vagrant plugin install vagrant-mutate

\- this gives the facility to change the vagrant box to be compatible
with alternative providers.

    vagrant mutate ubuntu/vivid64 libvirt

##### vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest

\- installs the guest addtions for virtualbox, which generally improves
file sharing and GUI operations.

##### vagrant plugin install vagrant-proxyconf

\- enables using a proxy for the guest machine. Add these lines to make
it use a proxy

    if Vagrant.has_plugin?("vagrant-proxyconf")
        config.proxy.http     = "http://192.168.0.2:3128/"
        config.proxy.https    = "http://192.168.0.2:3128/"
        config.proxy.no_proxy = "localhost,127.0.0.1,.example.com"
    end
      

You can find more information on this plugin and the source code here:
<https://github.com/tmatilai/vagrant-proxyconf>

Summary
-------

We covered some usages of Vagrant and options that can help.

-   verbose debugging output

-   how to set global options

-   useful plugins, including installation of Virtualbox guest
    additions, proxy configuration for corporate environments, and using
    libvirt on Linux.
