---
layout: post
title: Adobe AEM with SAML
date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: adobe-aem, ldap, rough notes
---
SAML SSO with ADFS
==================

What you'll need

the XML from the IdP or the .crt file, the public certificate file

The URL to redirect to for the login page the Path in AEM to go to after
the user has signed in

The Server ID, commonly but not always the URL of the server

first up, open the /system/console page in AEM

Then find the SAML configuration

Change the configuration, to set the IdP URL (maybe ending in /adfs/ls/)

Set the paths you want to secure with SAML.

Untick the box to make it POST to the IdP instead of redirect. We want
SSO and not IdP-initiated authentication.

Set the after-signin path.

Set the groups the user needs to belong to.

in CRXDE open /etc/key and create a node called 'saml'. Add a binary
property to this new node named 'idp\_cert' and save - you have to save
before you can upload the binary data for this property. Edit the
property and upload the .crt file here. Save it, and we are done.

If you only have an xml file from the IdP and no crt file, you can
extract the key from the file - it should be obvious as a big block of
base64 data. This needs to be 'top and tailed'

sample from <https://vcl.apache.org/docs/ldap-ca-bundle-ex.html>

-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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 
-----END CERTIFICATE-----

without the begin/end lines, it will be ignored. save this as plain
text, then upload as per the instructions for crt files.

testing it works\... use a private/incognito browser window, or a fresh
browser. go to the path you are securing, see the login window

if it doesn't redirect, make sure you're not logged in somehow to AEM,
particularly if you are setting up author and have used the same browser
to configure the OSGi components.

UID you might need to adjust the uid setting in osgi, if the IdP uses a
different property name.

Redirect filter. Set this up to match your needs.

SSO vs IdP initiated SSO asks the provider to auth and expects a crypted
response, whereas IdP-initiated can start at the IdP and sets a token
that is used by the service, I think?
