---
layout: post
title: Maven and Git
date:   2018-09-19 22:25:52 +0100
categories: git, maven, java
---
Project setup
=============

Git and Maven
-------------

### Git Ignore

It's useful to have some files and folders ignored by Git because you
don't want to put them under version control, or you don't need to share
them with others. Here's a good list that should fit most needs based on
the Adobe recommendations and expanded to include some extra entries.

    # Ignore VLT folder and files
    .vlt
    .vlt-sync.log
    .vlt-sync-config.properties

    # Quickstart launches in the source tree
    license.properties
    crx-quickstart

    # compilation results and jar files
    # neither should be under SCM
    target
    *.jar

    # IDE and OS artefacts
    # You should have these in your global settings anyway
    .idea
    .classpath
    .metadata
    .project
    .settings
    maven-eclipse.xml
    *.iml
    *.ipr
    *.iws
    .DS_Store

Maven Archetype
---------------

You can use a Maven archetype to create a new project, which will give a
good starting point. It's worth noting however, this is only good and
not perfect, so be prepared to tailor it to refine the configuration.
There's some really tasty low-hanging fruit that can yield solid
benefits, which we will cover.

    mvn archetype:generate \
        -DarchetypeRepository=http://repo.adobe.com/nexus/content/groups/public/ \
        -DarchetypeGroupId=com.day.jcr.vault \
        -DarchetypeArtifactId=multimodule-content-package-archetype \
        -DarchetypeVersion=1.0.2 \
        -DgroupId=com.example \
        -DartifactId=aemproject \
        -Dversion=1.0-SNAPSHOT \
        -Dpackage=com.example.aemproject \
        -DappsFolderName=aemproject \
        -DartifactName="Example AEM Project" \
        -DcqVersion="6.2.0" \
        -DpackageGroup="aemproject"

In summary what this does is:

-   connect to Adobe to use their Archetypes

-   select the multi-module archetype version 1.0.2

-   set groupId and artifactId for the new project

-   set a version number for the new project

-   define the java package to create for the project

-   add a description for the project as 'artifactName'

-   use a specific version of AEM; this configures the dependencies in
    the project pom.xml

-   set the package group for the CRX package this project will create

With all these options, the generation is automatic, it just prompts
yes/no to confirm the values. The project is created in a folder
matching the artifactId value.

You can now proceed to build the project using Maven, but it's better to
reconfigure it first. Besides, it won't do anything useful yet so
there's no rush.

### Useful changes to the pom.xml

The pom.xml that is generated by the multi-module archetype has a few
deficiencies that should be addressed from the start of the project.

Firstly, it includes declarations of the repositories used by Adobe.
These should be removed in favour of using a global settings file in
 /.m2/settings.xml that contains either these Adobe repositories or is
set up to use Nexus as a proxy. I prefer the latter as it caches all the
artifacts, making the builds more robust and not subject to service
outages (Internet access or the Adobe server).
